# Custom Annotations

Custom annotations enable you to quickly extend the Ingress Controller to support many advanced features of NGINX, such as rate limiting, caching, etc.

## What are Custom Annotations

NGINX Ingress Controller supports a number of annotations that fine tune NGINX configuration (for example, connection timeouts) or enable additional features (for example, JWT validation). The complete list of annotations is available [here](configmap-and-annotations.md).

The annotations are provided only for the most common features and use cases, meaning that not every NGINX feature or a customization option is available through the annotations. Additionally, even if an annotation is available, it might not give you the satisfactory level of control of a particular NGINX feature. 

Custom annotations allow you to add an annotation for an NGINX feature that is not available as a regular annotation. In contrast with regular annotations, to add a custom annotation, you don't need to modify the Ingress Controller source code -- just modify the template. Additionally, with a custom annotation, you get full control of how the feature is implemented in NGINX configuration.

## Usage

The Ingress Controller generates NGINX configuration for Ingress resources by executing a configuration template. See [NGINX template](../internal/nginx/templates/nginx.ingress.tmpl) or [NGINX Plus template](../internal/nginx/templates/nginx-plus.ingress.tmpl). 

To support custom annotations, the template has access to the information about the Ingress resource - its *name*, *namespace* and *annotations*. It is possible to check if a particular annotation present in the Ingress resource and conditionally insert NGINX configuration directives at multiple NGINX contexts - `http`, `server`, `location` or `upstream`. Additionally, you can get the value that is set to the annotation. 

Consider the following excerpt from the template, which was extended to support two custom annotations:

```
# This is the configuration for {{$.Ingress.Name}}/{{$.Ingress.Namespace}}

{{if index $.Ingress.Annotations "custom.nginx.org/feature-a"}}
# Insert config for feature A if the annotation is set
{{end}}

{{with $value := index $.Ingress.Annotations "custom.nginx.org/feature-b"}}
# Insert config for feature B if the annotation is set
# Print the value assigned to the annotation: {{$value}}
{{end}}
```

Consider the following Ingress resource and note how we set two annotations:
```yaml
apiVersion: extensions/v1beta1
kind: Ingress
metadata:
  name: example-ingress
  namespace: production
  annotations:
    custom.nginx.org/feature-a: "on"
    custom.nginx.org/feature-b: "512"
spec:
  rules:
  - host: example.com
    . . .
```

Assuming that the Ingress Controller is using that customized template, it will generate a config for the Ingress resource that will include the following part, generated by our template excerpt:
```
# This is the configuration for cafe-ingress/default

# Insert config for feature A if the annotation is set



# Insert config for feature B if the annotation is set
# Print the value assigned to the annotation: 512
```

**Notes**: 
* You can customize the template to insert you custom annotations via [custom templates](../examples/custom-templates).
* The Ingress Controller uses go templates to generate NGINX config. You can read more information about go templates [here](https://golang.org/pkg/text/template/).

See the examples in the next section that use custom annotations to configure NGINX features.

### Custom Annotations with Mergeable Ingress Resources

A Mergeable Ingress resource consists of multiple Ingress resources - one master and one or several minions. Read more about Mergeable Ingress resources [here](../examples/mergeable-ingress-types).

If you'd like to use custom annotations with Mergeable Ingress resources, please keep the following in mind:
* Custom annotations can be used in the Master and in Minions. For Minions, you can access them in the template only when processing locations.

    If you access `$.Ingress` anywhere in the Ingress template, you will get the master Ingress resource. To access a Minion Ingress resource, use `$location.MinionIngress`. However, it is only available when processing locations:
    ```
	{{range $location := $server.Locations}}
	location {{$location.Path}} {
        {{with $location.MinionIngress}}
	    # location for minion {{$location.MinionIngress.Namespace}}/{{$location.MinionIngress.Name}}
	    {{end}}
        . . .
    } {{end}}
    ```
    **Note**: `$location.MinionIngress` is a pointer. When a regular Ingress resource is processed in the template, the value of the pointer is `nil`. Thus, it is important that you check that `$location.MinionIngress` is not `nil` as in the example above using the `with` action.  

* Minions do not inherent custom annotations of the master.

## Example

See the [custom annotations example](../examples/custom-annotations).